---
path: "/node-cli"
title: "Make your own Node CLI tool"
date: "2019-04-13"
tag: Node
spoiler: Build a CLI tool with Node.
---

I recently created a CLI tool with Node and was surprise how it easy it was to get it up and running. Here are the steps I took for getting started.

## Initializing the NPM package

You've likely done this before. Run the `npm init` command and accept the defaults.

The most important thing to do in the newly created `package.json` is to specify the location of the binary that you want to be executed. This is done by adding the following to `package.json`:

```json
"bin": {
  "<name of the cli command>": "bin/cli.js"
}
```

You can define the command that you want the user to type to execute your tool as the key, and the path to the script as the value.

## Shebang

In order for our CLI script to be executed we need to include a Node shebang at the top of our `.js` file. I also like to include `'use strict'` to enable strict mode.

```js
#!/usr/bin/env node
'use strict';

// Your Node script here
```

The shebang is read by the operating system's program loader and passes the following script to the executable mentioned.

## Make it easy with Meow

**[Meow](https://github.com/sindresorhus/meow)** is a great helper package for creating CLI tools. You just define the help/usage text and expected flags/arguments and Meow takes care of the rest.

## Publishing

If you've never published an NPM package, make sure you create an account on [npmjs.org](https://npmjs.org) first.

Log in with your credentials via `npm login`. When your ready to publish your package, run `npm publish`.

## An example

I recently created a CLI tool to print all College Basketball live scores and game times in the terminal ([found here](https://github.com/johnsylvain/cbb)). Using the steps I mentioned above I was able to get it up and running in less than an hour. Pretty nice!